# Photoshare

ER diagram

Design and explanation

The application should first have a welcome page, which allows the users to choose what they want to do. By clicking on the sign up button, the user will be directed to an account creation page, which asks him/her for an email address that is unique, a password, first name, last name, date of birth, gender, hometown, biography and a customized profile picture. Most of the fields are not mandatory, but the email address and password are required and will then be the information the user needs to log into the account. As the registration process is completed, a tuple holding all the above attributes will be inserted into the users table, with a unique user id generated as its primary key. If the user already has an account, then he/she should be able to login by providing his/her email and password. A registered user is given the privilege to edit his/her profile information, including all the users table attributes except the generated id. After registered, a user can add friends by searching for other users through their email, since each email address uniquely identifies a user. “isFriend” is a relationship between two different users and will be updated as two users become friends with each other. However, even though someone does not have an account, he/she should still be able to view albums and photos posted by other people, while not able to post his/her own. 

A registered user is able to create albums and upload photos to the albums. The user will be asked to give the album a name, and select a date of creation. Since an album must belong to exactly one user, it should also have a NOT NULL corresponding user id as its foreign key constraint. As the new album creation is completed, a tuple is inserted into the album table, and a unique album id will be generated, as the primary key for the tuple. The same idea also applies to the Photos table. A photo needs to have a caption and the data storing the picture, as well as a foreign key constraint album id which is NOT NULL, since a photo must belong to one album. As a new photo tuple is inserted, a unique photo id will be generated as its primary key. In addition, the application also allows the users to add tags to the photos and view photos by tag. Each tag has its unique description, so we can identify its description as the primary key. A photo can has any number of tags, and a tag can belong to any number of photos, so that we can create a relationship table called “Tagged with” which takes a tag description and a photo id as primary keys, referencing from both the photos table and the tags table. In this way, the user will be able to search for and view photos with certain tags stored in the photos table. 

Users can also make comment and like others’ photos. We have two separate tables to store all the comments and likes. Both of the tables have two foreign key constraints: one is the user id of the user who makes the comment/create the like, the other is the photo id that the comment/like belongs to. The application will also have a “You May Like” function, which recommends photos for a user according to the tags the user often has for his/hers own photos. This requires us to track the tags that a user frequently uses and extract photos with the same tags from the photos table as recommendation. 

